=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

eth0 - Perl IRC bot with hot code swap

=head1 DESCRIPTION

eth0 is an IRC bot, written in Perl, using L<POE::Component::IRC>. 
Originally written to manage a small IRC channel for ethup.se on the 
service less network Linknet, but should be easy to deploy to other 
organizations/channels. To write own rules, some experience of Perl is 
expected. All rules (except reload) are located in eth0::IRC::Command. 
Documentation for writing new rules are available in eth0::IRC::Command. 

=head2 BASIC USAGE

The bot joins the channel(s) you've configured it to join. Give it op,
and then let it idle. The example Command.pm will spit out random 
statements and rudeness on various conditions, so please disable this
if you don't like it :-).

When the bot is online you will have access to it's interface (as 
defined by you in Commands.pm). By default, the bot identifies 
commands as something starting with an exclamation mark (!) or as 
being directed towards the bot:

 <@zibri> eth0: echo test
 <@eth0> zibri: test

or 

 <@zibri> !echo test
 <@eth0> zibri: test

This should be easily changeable in Commands.pm. Please see 
Commands.pm for more details.

=head2 FEATURE HILIGHTS

=over

=item Hot code swap

Define or change rules without killing the bot. Just issue a reload 
command to the bot, and it should report if the reload was successful, 
and if it was, start using the new rules.

=item Governing multiple channels at once

You can define several channels the bot should live in (as long as 
they are on the same network/server). It still uses the same backend 
and auth engine, though.

=item Authentication and mode setting

The reason of existence for the bot; eth0 was written for Linknet, a 
network not using services as Nickserv and Chanserv. As long as the 
bot has +o on the channel, it can give modes to other users, after 
they identify to the bot. The procedure should be familiar to users of 
networks that do use services.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

The configuration file is located in F</etc/eth0/config.yaml>. An 
example config is distributed with the code in F<doc/>. 

=head1 HISTORY

eth0 is a member of a proud lineage of IRC bots, governing the 
sanctuary of #ethup on Linknet. Its ancestors have primarily been 
written in Perl, just like this, but there have been incarnations 
written in C and Erlang as well.

=head1 BUGS

I bet you could find some, and if you do, be sure to contact me, 
either on IRC (zibri on Linknet, Freenode, OFTC) or by mail 
(olof@ethup.se)! 

=head1 TODO

There are some new features that I would like to implement, including:

=over 

=item * Handling external events

This would enable you (me? us?) to hook the bot up to an RSS reader, 
RT queue monitor, nagios or something totally different. Only your 
imagination is the limit, and mine sucks at the moment. This would
require the bot to somehow interrupt PoCo's event loop... I'm very
interested in this feature, and is high on my list.

=item * Plain text backend engine

We now use DBIx::Class ORM for our database access. This is nice, as
we now can support "all" DBH:s that DBI can support (I think?). I want
to test using the bot with only a sqlite database, as if this is 
possible, it would be easy to make a quick deployment without 
requiring a large DBMS running. 

But still, this makes the bot depend on DBI and DBIx::Class when you 
could probably hold all your config in some kind of configuration 
file. This will make it trivial to do manual updates to the persistent
data and removes the dependencies. I'm leaning towards using YAML, as
this is used for the configuration file, but one thing doesn't exclude
other if there is a demand for, e.g. an XML or CSV backend. 

=item * Unit testing?

I would like to investigate the feasibility of writing a test suite
for the bot.

=back 

But before this is happening, I want to be satisfied by the base 
functionality. The following items are B<pressing> issues:

=over

=item Only authorized users should be able to do !reload

This is done, more or less. Needs some testing though... And perhaps
some cleaning up.

=item Install scripts and documentation

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

eth0 was written by Olof Johansson (zibri), olof@ethup.se.

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

The latest information on means of distribution is found at 
L<http://ethup.se/eth0/>, where you should be able to find links
to the latest stable and development versions. 
